Add Unified Memory (#3494)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/unified_memory.rst

        // Allocate memory for a, b and c that is accessible to both device and host codes.
        hipMallocManaged(&a, sizeof(*a));
        hipMallocManaged(&b, sizeof(*b));
        hipMallocManaged(&c, sizeof(*c));

        // Setup input values.
        *a = 1;
        *b = 2;

        // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
        hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, a, b, c);

        // Wait for GPU to finish before accessing on host.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Query an attribute of the memory range.
        hipMemRangeGetAttribute(&attributeValue,
                                attributeSize,
                                hipMemRangeAttributeReadMostly,
                                a,
                                sizeof(*a));

        // Prints the result.
        std::cout << *a << " + " << *b << " = " << *c << std::endl;
        std::cout << "The queried attribute value is: " << attributeValue << std::endl;

        // Cleanup allocated memory.
        hipFree(a);
        hipFree(b);
        hipFree(c);

        return 0;
    }

Asynchronously Attach Memory to a Stream
----------------------------------------

> The hipStreamAttachMemAsync function is used to asynchronously attach memory to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``hipStreamAttachMemAsync`` function is used to asynchronously attach memory to
```

Author: Fixed

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes introduces Unified Memory (UM) and shows
                how to use it in AMD HIP.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, unified memory, unified, memory, UM, APU

*******************************************************************************
Unified Memory
*******************************************************************************

Concept
=======

> In a conventional architectures, both CPUs a GPUs have a dedicated memory,

Reviewer 2: Recommended text:

Introduction
In conventional architectures, CPUs and GPUs have dedicated memory like Random Access Memory (RAM) and Video Random Access Memory (VRAM). This architectural design, while effective, can be limiting in terms of memory capacity and bandwidth, as continuous memory copying is required to allow the processors to access the appropriate data. New architectural features like Heterogeneous System Architectures (HSA) and Unified Memory (UM) help avoid these limitations and promise increased efficiency and innovation.

Unified memory
Unified Memory is a single memory address space accessible from any processor within a system. This setup simplifies memory management processes and enables applications to allocate data that can be read or written by code running on either CPUs or GPUs. The Unified memory model is shown in the following figure.

Author: Updated.

> In a conventional architectures, both CPUs a GPUs have a dedicated memory,

Reviewer 2: Thanks, Matyas. Appreciate the prompt fixes. 

Some more minor fixes.

Author: Thank you! I applied the recommended fixes.

> In a conventional architectures, both CPUs a GPUs have a dedicated memory,

Reviewer 2: Remove 'a' in 

In **a** conventional architectures

Author: It has been removed in the last commit, but Github UI does not show it, because there was a comment on it.
You can see the latest version here:
https://github.com/ROCm/HIP/pull/3494/files#diff-9ffae9738c016086230e9386a7d0aa1b26bd7a8f4845494ba9952cf0de47c1db

the RAM and VRAM, respectively. Inherent in this architectural design is the
need for continuous memory copying to allow the processors to access the
appropriate data. This reduces the maximum available memory capacity and
bandwidth. One way to avoid these effects is to use Heterogeneous System
Architectures (HSA) such as Unified Memory.

The Unified Memory (UM) can be understood as a single memory address space that
is accessible from any processor within a system. This setup enables
applications to allocate data that can be read or written by code running on
either CPUs or GPUs. The Unified memory model is shown in the figure below.

.. figure:: ../data/unified_memory/um.svg

> AMD Accelerated Processing Unit (APU) is a typical example of a Unified Memory

Reviewer 2: Recommended

AMD Accelerated Processing Unit (APU)  is a typical example of a Unified Memory Architecture. On a single die, a central processing unit (CPU) is combined with an integrated graphics processing unit (iGPU), and both have access to a high-bandwidth memory (HBM) module named Unified Memory. The CPU enables high-performance, low-latency operations, while the GPU is optimized for high throughput (data processed by unit time).

Author: Updated.

Architecture. On a single die, a central processing unit (CPU) is combined with
an integrated graphics processing unit (iGPU) and both have the access for a
high bandwidth memory (HBM) module, named as Unified Memory. The CPU enables
high-performance low latency operations, while the GPU is optimized for
high-throughput (data processed by unit time).

> How-to use?

Reviewer 2: Move this section to after System requirements and Unified memory programming models.

Author: Updated.

> How-to use?

Reviewer 2: Recommended

Using Unified Memory Management (UMM)

Author: Updated.

===========

Unified Memory Management (UMM) is a feature that can simplify the complexities
of memory management in GPU computing. It is particularly useful in
heterogeneous computing environments with heavy memory usage with both a CPU
and a GPU which would require large memory transfers. Here are some areas where
UMM can be beneficial:

> - **Simplification of Memory Management**:

Reviewer 2: Recommended

Simplification of memory management

UMM can help to simplify the complexities of memory management. This can make it easier for developers to write code without worrying about memory allocation and deallocation details.

Author: Updated.

UMM can help to simplify the complexities of memory management. This can make
it easier for developers to write code without having to worry about the
details of memory allocation and deallocation.

- **Data Migration**:
UMM allows for efficient data migration between the host (CPU) and the device
(GPU). This can be particularly useful for applications that need to move data
back and forth between the device and host.

- **Improved Programming Productivity**:
As a positive side effect, the use of UMM can reduce the lines of code,
thereby improving programming productivity.

> In HIP, pinned memory allocations are coherent by default. Pinned memory is

Reviewer 2: Recommended

In HIP, pinned memory allocations are coherent by default. Pinned memory is host memory mapped into the address space of all GPUs, meaning that the pointer can be used on both host and device. Using pinned memory instead of pageable memory on the host can improve bandwidth.

Author: Updated.

host memory that is mapped into the address space of all GPUs, meaning that the
pointer can be used on both host and device. Using pinned memory instead of
pageable memory on the host can lead an improvement in bandwidth.

> While UMM can provide numerous benefits, it is also important

Reviewer 2: Recommended

While UMM can provide numerous benefits, it is important to be aware of the potential performance overhead associated with UMM. You must thoroughly test and profile your code to ensure it is the most suitable choice for your use case.

Author: Updated.

to be aware of the potential performance overhead associated with UMM.
Therefore, it is recommended to thoroughly test and profile your code to
ensure it is indeed the most suitable choice for your specific use case.

System Requirements
===================
Unified memory is supported on Linux by all modern AMD GPUs from the Vega
series onward. Unified memory management can be achieved with managed memory
allocation and, for the latest GPUs, with a system allocator.

The table below lists the supported allocators. The allocators are described in

> the next chapter.

Reviewer 2: There are no chapters. Perhaps the next section? Or could you add a link to the relevant section?

Author: Updated.

.. list-table:: Supported Unified Memory Allocators
    :widths: 40, 25, 25, 25
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: center

    * - Architecture
      - ``hipMallocManaged()``
      - ``__managed__``
      - ``malloc()``
    * - MI200, MI300 Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ✅ :sup:`1`
    * - MI100
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - RDNA (Navi) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - GCN5 (Vega) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌

✅: **Supported**

❌: **Unsupported**

:sup:`1` Works only with ``XNACK=1``. First GPU access causes recoverable page-fault.

> Unified Memory Programming Models

Reviewer 2: Add descriptive text after the heading. What are the bulleted items? How do they connect with the UM programming models?

Author: Added.

=================================

- **HIP Managed Memory Allocation API**:

> The ``hipMallocManaged()`` is a dynamic memory allocator available at all GPUs

Reviewer 2: Recommended

>The hipMallocManaged() is a dynamic memory allocator that is available on all GPUs with unified memory support.

Author: Updated.

with unified memory support. For more details please visit

> :doc:`reference page:reference/unified_memory_reference`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:doc:`reference page <reference/unified_memory_reference>`.
```
Link didn't work.  Isn't this the correct formatting for RST?  Can you check the other links too?

Author: Thanks! Fixed and checked all  :doc: links.

- **HIP Managed Variables**:

> The ``__managed__`` declaration specifier, which serves as its counterpart, is

Reviewer 2: Recommended

The __managed__ declaration specifier, which serves as its counterpart, is supported on all modern AMD cards and can be utilized for static allocation.

Author: Updated.

supported across all modern AMD cards and can be utilized for static
allocation.

- **System Allocation API**:

> Starting with the MI300 series, it is also possible to reserve unified memory

Reviewer 2: Recommended

Starting with the MI300 series, the malloc() system allocator allows you to reserve unified memory.

Consider adding details on how this is beneficial to our users.

Author: Updated and explained.

via the ``malloc()`` system allocator.

> If it is wondered whether the GPU and the environment are capable of supporting

Reviewer 2: Is this point missing a heading? Let's simplify the text to,

The `hipDeviceAttributeConcurrentManagedAccess` device attribute indicates whether unified memory management supports the GPU and the environment.

From a user perspective, 
- how do we define support? 
- what is the expected behavior when UMM is not supported?

Author: Thank you! I added the heading and I updated the description.

unified memory management, the ``hipDeviceAttributeConcurrentManagedAccess``
device attribute can answer it:

.. code-block:: cpp

    #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
    #include <iostream>

    int main() {
        int d;
        hipGetDevice(&d);

        int is_cma = 0;
        hipDeviceGetAttribute(&is_cma, hipDeviceAttributeConcurrentManagedAccess, d);
        std::cout << "HIP Managed Memory: "
                  << (is_cma == 1 ? "is" : "NOT")
                  << " supported" << std::endl;
        return 0;
    }

Example for Unified Memory Management
-------------------------------------

The following example shows how to use unified memory management with
``hipMallocManaged()``, function, with ``__managed__`` attribute for static

> allocation and standard  ``malloc()`` allocation. The Explicit Memory

Reviewer 2: Where is EMM presented for comparison? Do you mean in the figure? Consider adding a link to the section, so users don't have to scroll back and forth.

Author: Sorry, I meant in the last tab of the tabset. I updated this section.

                *c = *a + *b;
            }

            int main() {
                int a, b, c;
                int *d_a, *d_b, *d_c;

                // Setup input values.
                a = 1;
                b = 2;

                // Allocate device copies of a, b and c.
                hipMalloc(&d_a, sizeof(*d_a));
                hipMalloc(&d_b, sizeof(*d_b));
                hipMalloc(&d_c, sizeof(*d_c));

                // Copy input values to device.
                hipMemcpy(d_a, &a, sizeof(*d_a), hipMemcpyHostToDevice);
                hipMemcpy(d_b, &b, sizeof(*d_b), hipMemcpyHostToDevice);

                // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
                hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, d_a, d_b, d_c);

                // Copy the result back to the host.
                hipMemcpy(&c, d_c, sizeof(*d_c), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost);

                // Cleanup allocated memory.
                hipFree(d_a);
                hipFree(d_b);
                hipFree(d_c);

                // Prints the result.
                std::cout << a << " + " << b << " = " << c << std::endl;

                return 0;
            }

> Compiler Hints for the Better Performance

Reviewer 2: Could you help establish context with UMM? Do we mean C++ compiler hints?

Author: These are UMM compiler hints. I updated the header.

=========================================

Compiler hints can help to make the performance better your code if you know
the ability of your code and the infrastructure that you use. We are
presenting some hint techniques in this section.

The hint functions can set actions on a selected device which can be
identified by ``hipGetDeviceProperties(&prop, device_id)``. There are two
special ``device_id`` values:

> - ``hipCpuDeviceId`` = -1 means that the advised device is the CPU.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- ``hipCpuDeviceId`` = -1 means that the advised device is the CPU.
```
Add a line for formatting, so it'll treat next lines as a list.  I think that is the intended format.

Author: Updated.

with an integrated graphics processing unit (iGPU), and both have access to a
high-bandwidth memory (HBM) module named Unified Memory. The CPU enables
high-performance, low-latency operations, while the GPU is optimized for high
throughput (data processed by unit time).

.. _unified memory system requirements:

System Requirements
===================
Unified memory is supported on Linux by all modern AMD GPUs from the Vega
series onward. Unified memory management can be achieved with managed memory
allocation and, for the latest GPUs, with a system allocator.

The table below lists the supported allocators. The allocators are described in
the next section.

.. list-table:: Supported Unified Memory Allocators
    :widths: 40, 25, 25, 25
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: center

    * - Architecture
      - ``hipMallocManaged()``
      - ``__managed__``
      - ``malloc()``
    * - MI200, MI300 Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ✅ :sup:`1`
    * - MI100
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - RDNA (Navi) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - GCN5 (Vega) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌

✅: **Supported**

❌: **Unsupported**

> :sup:`1` Works only with ``XNACK=1``. First GPU access causes recoverable

Reviewer: Add a link to XNACK documentation:
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/conceptual/gpu-memory.html#xnack

Author: Nice catch!

Author: Added.

page-fault.

.. _unified memory programming models:

Unified Memory Programming Models
=================================

We are showcasing various unified memory programming models, the availability
of which depends on your architecture. For further details, please visit
:ref:`unified memory system requirements` and :ref:`checking unified memory
management support`.

- **HIP Managed Memory Allocation API**:
The ``hipMallocManaged()`` is a dynamic memory allocator that is available on

> all GPUs with unified memory support. For more details please visit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all GPUs with unified memory support. For more details, please visit
```

Author: Fixed.

:doc:`reference page <reference/unified_memory_reference>`.

- **HIP Managed Variables**:
The ``__managed__`` declaration specifier, which serves as its counterpart, is
supported on all modern AMD cards and can be utilized for static allocation.

- **System Allocation API**:
Starting with the MI300 series, the ``malloc()`` system allocator allows you

> to reserve unified memory. The system allocator is more versatile and it offers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to reserve unified memory. The system allocator is more versatile, and it offers
```

Author: Fixed.

                hipMalloc(&d_b, sizeof(*d_b));
                hipMalloc(&d_c, sizeof(*d_c));

                // Copy input values to device.
                hipMemcpy(d_a, &a, sizeof(*d_a), hipMemcpyHostToDevice);
                hipMemcpy(d_b, &b, sizeof(*d_b), hipMemcpyHostToDevice);

                // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
                hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, d_a, d_b, d_c);

                // Copy the result back to the host.
                hipMemcpy(&c, d_c, sizeof(*d_c), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost);

                // Cleanup allocated memory.
                hipFree(d_a);
                hipFree(d_b);
                hipFree(d_c);

                // Prints the result.
                std::cout << a << " + " << b << " = " << c << std::endl;

                return 0;
            }

.. _using unified memory management:

Using Unified Memory Management (UMM)
=====================================
Unified Memory Management (UMM) is a feature that can simplify the complexities
of memory management in GPU computing. It is particularly useful in
heterogeneous computing environments with heavy memory usage with both a CPU

> and a GPU which would require large memory transfers. Here are some areas where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a GPU, which would require large memory transfers. Here are some areas where
```

Author: Fixed.

it easier for developers to write code without worrying about memory allocation
and deallocation details.

- **Data Migration**:
UMM allows for efficient data migration between the host (CPU) and the device
(GPU). This can be particularly useful for applications that need to move data
back and forth between the device and host.

- **Improved Programming Productivity**:
As a positive side effect, the use of UMM can reduce the lines of code,
thereby improving programming productivity.

In HIP, pinned memory allocations are coherent by default. Pinned memory is
host memory mapped into the address space of all GPUs, meaning that the pointer
can be used on both host and device. Using pinned memory instead of pageable
memory on the host can improve bandwidth.

While UMM can provide numerous benefits, it is important to be aware of the
potential performance overhead associated with UMM. You must thoroughly test
and profile your code to ensure it is the most suitable choice for your use
case.

.. _unified memory compiler hints:

Unified Memory Compiler Hints for the Better Performance
========================================================

> Unified memory compiler hints can help to make the performance better your code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unified memory compiler hints can help to improve the performance of your code,
```

Author: Fixed.

if you know the ability of your code and the infrastructure that you use. We
are presenting some hint techniques in this section.

> The hint functions can set actions on a selected device which can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hint functions can set actions on a selected device, which can be
```

Author: Fixed.

        // Additionally, set memory advise for a, b, and c to be read mostly from the device 0.
        constexpr int device = 0;
        hipMemAdvise(a, sizeof(*a), hipMemAdviseSetReadMostly, device);
        hipMemAdvise(b, sizeof(*b), hipMemAdviseSetReadMostly, device);
        hipMemAdvise(c, sizeof(*c), hipMemAdviseSetReadMostly, device);

        // Setup input values.
        *a = 1;
        *b = 2;

        // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
        hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, a, b, c);

        // Wait for GPU to finish before accessing on host.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Prints the result.
        std::cout << *a << " + " << *b << " = " << *c << std::endl;

        // Cleanup allocated memory.
        hipFree(a);
        hipFree(b);
        hipFree(c);

        return 0;
    }

Memory Range attributes
-----------------------
Memory Range attributes allow you to query attributes of a given memory range.

The ``hipMemRangeGetAttribute()`` is added to the example to query the
``hipMemRangeAttributeReadMostly`` attribute of the memory range pointed to by
``a``. The result is stored in ``attributeValue`` and then printed out.

> For more details please visit the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, please visit the
```

Author: Fixed.

        hipMallocManaged(&b, sizeof(*b));
        hipMallocManaged(&c, sizeof(*c));

        // Setup input values.
        *a = 1;
        *b = 2;

        // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
        hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, a, b, c);

        // Wait for GPU to finish before accessing on host.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Query an attribute of the memory range.
        hipMemRangeGetAttribute(&attributeValue,
                                attributeSize,
                                hipMemRangeAttributeReadMostly,
                                a,
                                sizeof(*a));

        // Prints the result.
        std::cout << *a << " + " << *b << " = " << *c << std::endl;
        std::cout << "The queried attribute value is: " << attributeValue << std::endl;

        // Cleanup allocated memory.
        hipFree(a);
        hipFree(b);
        hipFree(c);

        return 0;
    }

Asynchronously Attach Memory to a Stream
----------------------------------------

The ``hipStreamAttachMemAsync`` function is used to asynchronously attach
memory to a stream, which can help with concurrent execution when using
streams.

> In the example a stream is created by using ``hipStreamCreate()`` and then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example, a stream is created by using ``hipStreamCreate()`` and then
```

Author: Fixed.

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes introduces Unified Memory (UM) and shows
                how to use it in AMD HIP.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, unified memory, unified, memory, UM, APU

*******************************************************************************
Unified Memory
*******************************************************************************

> Introduction

Reviewer 4: Remove the intro header - not needed

Author: Removed.

.. _unified memory system requirements:

System Requirements
===================
Unified memory is supported on Linux by all modern AMD GPUs from the Vega
series onward. Unified memory management can be achieved with managed memory
allocation and, for the latest GPUs, with a system allocator.

The table below lists the supported allocators. The allocators are described in
the next section.

.. list-table:: Supported Unified Memory Allocators
    :widths: 40, 25, 25, 25
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: center

    * - Architecture
      - ``hipMallocManaged()``
      - ``__managed__``
      - ``malloc()``
    * - MI200, MI300 Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ✅ :sup:`1`
    * - MI100
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - RDNA (Navi) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌
    * - GCN5 (Vega) Series
      - ✅
      - ✅
      - ❌

✅: **Supported**

❌: **Unsupported**

:sup:`1` Works only with ``XNACK=1``. First GPU access causes recoverable
page-fault. For more details, visit
`GPU memory <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/conceptual/gpu-memory.html#xnack>`_.

.. _unified memory programming models:

Unified Memory Programming Models
=================================

> Showcasing various unified memory programming models, their availability

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Showcasing various unified memory programming models, the model availability
```

Author: Updated.

> depends on your architecture. For further details, visit :ref:`unified memory
> system requirements` and :ref:`checking unified memory management support`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
depends on your architecture. For more information, see :ref:`unified memory
system requirements` and :ref:`checking unified memory management support`.
```

Author: Fixed.

- **HIP Managed Memory Allocation API**:

>   The ``hipMallocManaged()`` is a dynamic memory allocator that is available on
>   all GPUs with unified memory support. For more details, visit
>   :ref:`unified_memory_reference`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The ``hipMallocManaged()`` is a dynamic memory allocator available on
  all GPUs with unified memory support. For more details, visit
  :ref:`unified_memory_reference`.
```

Author: Fixed.

- **HIP Managed Variables**:

  The ``__managed__`` declaration specifier, which serves as its counterpart,
  is supported on all modern AMD cards and can be utilized for static
  allocation.

- **System Allocation API**:

>   Starting with the MI300 series, the ``malloc()`` system allocator allows you
>   to reserve unified memory. The system allocator is more versatile, and it
>   offers an easy transition from a CPU written C++ code to a HIP code as the
>   same system allocation API is used.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Starting with the AMD MI300 series, the ``malloc()`` system allocator allows you
  to reserve unified memory. The system allocator is more versatile and offers an easy transition from a CPU written C++ code to a HIP code as the
  same system allocation API is used.
```

Author: Fixed.

.. _checking unified memory management support:

Checking Unified Memory Management Support
------------------------------------------

> Some device attribute can offer information about which :ref:`unified memory
> programming models` are supported. The attribute value is an integer 1 if the
> functionality is supported, and 0 if it is not supported.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some device attributes can offer information about which :ref:`unified memory
programming models` are supported. The attribute value is 1 if the
functionality is supported, and 0 if it is not supported.
```

Author: Fixed.

                hipFree(d_a);
                hipFree(d_b);
                hipFree(d_c);

                // Prints the result.
                std::cout << a << " + " << b << " = " << c << std::endl;

                return 0;
            }

.. _using unified memory management:

Using Unified Memory Management (UMM)
=====================================
Unified Memory Management (UMM) is a feature that can simplify the complexities
of memory management in GPU computing. It is particularly useful in
heterogeneous computing environments with heavy memory usage with both a CPU
and a GPU, which would require large memory transfers. Here are some areas
where UMM can be beneficial:

- **Simplification of Memory Management**:

  UMM can help to simplify the complexities of memory management. This can make
  it easier for developers to write code without worrying about memory
  allocation and deallocation details.

- **Data Migration**: 
  
  UMM allows for efficient data migration between the host (CPU) and the device
  (GPU). This can be particularly useful for applications that need to move
  data back and forth between the device and host.

- **Improved Programming Productivity**:

>   As a positive side effect, the use of UMM can reduce the lines of code,
>   thereby improving programming productivity.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  As a positive side effect, UMM can reduce the lines of code,
  thereby improving programming productivity.
```

Author: Fixed.

In HIP, pinned memory allocations are coherent by default. Pinned memory is
host memory mapped into the address space of all GPUs, meaning that the pointer
can be used on both host and device. Using pinned memory instead of pageable
memory on the host can improve bandwidth.

> While UMM can provide numerous benefits, it is important to be aware of the
> potential performance overhead associated with UMM. You must thoroughly test
> and profile your code to ensure it is the most suitable choice for your use

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
While UMM can provide numerous benefits, it's important to be aware of the
potential performance overhead associated with UMM. You must thoroughly test
and profile your code to ensure it's the most suitable choice for your use
```

Author: Updated.

case.

.. _unified memory compiler hints:

Unified Memory Compiler Hints for the Better Performance
========================================================

> Unified memory compiler hints can help to improve the performance of your code,
> if you know the ability of your code and the infrastructure that you use. Some
> hint techniques are presented in this section.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Unified memory compiler hints can help improve the performance of your code if you know your code's ability and infrastructure. Some
hint techniques are presented in this section.
```

Author: Updated.

The hint functions can set actions on a selected device, which can be
identified by ``hipGetDeviceProperties(&prop, device_id)``. There are two
special ``device_id`` values:

- ``hipCpuDeviceId`` = -1 means that the advised device is the CPU.
- ``hipInvalidDeviceId`` = -2 means that the device is invalid.

> For the best performance you can profile your application to optimize the
> utilization of compiler hits.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the best performance, profile your application to optimize the
utilization of compiler hits.
```

Author: Updated.

Data Prefetching
----------------
Data prefetching is a technique used to improve the performance of your

> application by moving data closer to the processing unit before it is actually

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
application by moving data closer to the processing unit before it's
```

Author: Updated.

        hipGetDevice(&deviceId); // Get the current device ID

        // Allocate memory for a, b and c that is accessible to both device and host codes.
        hipMallocManaged(&a, sizeof(*a));
        hipMallocManaged(&b, sizeof(*b));
        hipMallocManaged(&c, sizeof(*c));

        // Setup input values.
        *a = 1;
        *b = 2;

        // Prefetch the data to the GPU device.
        hipMemPrefetchAsync(a, sizeof(*a), deviceId, 0);
        hipMemPrefetchAsync(b, sizeof(*b), deviceId, 0);
        hipMemPrefetchAsync(c, sizeof(*c), deviceId, 0);

        // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
        hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, a, b, c);

        // Wait for GPU to finish before accessing on host.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Prefetch the result back to the CPU.
        hipMemPrefetchAsync(c, sizeof(*c), hipCpuDeviceId, 0);

        // Wait for the prefetch operations to complete.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Prints the result.
        std::cout << *a << " + " << *b << " = " << *c << std::endl;

        // Cleanup allocated memory.
        hipFree(a);
        hipFree(b);
        hipFree(c);

        return 0;
    }

> Remember to check the return status of ``hipMemPrefetchAsync()`` to ensure that
> the prefetch operations complete successfully!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Remember to check the return status of ``hipMemPrefetchAsync()`` to ensure that
the prefetch operations are completed successfully.
```

Author: Fixed.

Memory Advise
-------------
The effectiveness of ``hipMemAdvise()`` comes from its ability to inform the
runtime system of the developer's intentions regarding memory usage. When the
runtime system has knowledge of the expected memory access patterns, it can
make better decisions about data placement and caching, leading to more
efficient execution of the application. However, the actual impact on
performance can vary based on the specific use case and the hardware
architecture.

For the description of ``hipMemAdvise()`` and the detailed list of advises,
visit the :ref:`unified_memory_reference`.

> Here is the updated version of the example above with memory advises.

Reviewer 4: is "advise" the right term?
perhaps "advice"
seems odds

Author: Thanks! I fixed all occurrences of the noun `advice`.

.. code-block:: cpp
    :emphasize-lines: 17-26

    #include <hip/hip_runtime.h>
    #include <iostream>

    // Addition of two values.
    __global__ void add(int *a, int *b, int *c) {
        *c = *a + *b;
    }

    int main() {
        int *a, *b, *c;

>         // Allocate memory for a, b and c that is accessible to both device and host codes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        // Allocate memory for a, b, and c accessible to both device and host codes.
```

Author: Updated.

        // Allocate memory for a, b and c that is accessible to both device and host codes.
        hipMallocManaged(&a, sizeof(*a));
        hipMallocManaged(&b, sizeof(*b));
        hipMallocManaged(&c, sizeof(*c));

        // Setup input values.
        *a = 1;
        *b = 2;

        // Launch add() kernel on GPU.
        hipLaunchKernelGGL(add, dim3(1), dim3(1), 0, 0, a, b, c);

        // Wait for GPU to finish before accessing on host.
        hipDeviceSynchronize();

        // Query an attribute of the memory range.
        hipMemRangeGetAttribute(&attributeValue,
                                attributeSize,
                                hipMemRangeAttributeReadMostly,
                                a,
                                sizeof(*a));

        // Prints the result.
        std::cout << *a << " + " << *b << " = " << *c << std::endl;
        std::cout << "The queried attribute value is: " << attributeValue << std::endl;

        // Cleanup allocated memory.
        hipFree(a);
        hipFree(b);
        hipFree(c);

        return 0;
    }

Asynchronously Attach Memory to a Stream
----------------------------------------

> The ``hipStreamAttachMemAsync`` function is used to asynchronously attach
> memory to a stream, which can help with concurrent execution when using
> streams.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ``hipStreamAttachMemAsync`` function asynchronously attaches
memory to a stream, which can help concurrent execution when using
streams.
```

Author: Updated
